Hey everyone. Welcome back to
Movie Recap. My name is Silverra.
Today I'm gonna show you a 2000 superhero
thriller film called
Unbreakable.
The film opens as we see a baby being born in
west Philadelphia. This is Elijah Price. Elijah
is so brittle that he is born with broken arms
and legs. As he grows older, he is taunted at
school and called Mr. Glass by his classmates
since he is so fragile. As an adult, he runs
a successful high priced comic book art gallery
specializing in original drawings of super heroes.
David Dunn is a security guard
at the local college stadium.
His marriage is crumbling and
in fact, his wife, Audrey Dunn,
sleeps downstairs in their son's room,
and David sleeps upstairs with his son.
On his way back home from a job interview in New
York, David's train malfunctions and derails,
killing everyone on board except David. He doesn't
even have a scratch. After the memorial service
for the crash victims, David finds a note on
his windshield. It's from a store named "Limited
Edition" (Elijah's store) and the note asks,
"How many days of your life have you been sick?"
David asks his boss and his wife but no
one can ever remember him being sick.
David takes his son to "Limited
Edition" where he meets Elijah.
Elijah explains his theory to David. If Elijah can
be born with brittle bones and very easily hurt,
shouldn't there be someone the exact
opposite? Elijah has researched
every disaster to find a sole survivor
without a scratch but has had no luck.
After years of searching, he
finally has found one in David Dunn.
David thinks it's interesting but really just
thinks Elijah is nuts. Back at the stadium,
David gets a call that there is someone there
trying to sneak in and asking for David. It's
Elijah and he starts explaining his comic book
theories to David. Theories about everyday men
being super heroes, having powers they haven't yet
realized and so on. David bumps into a guy in line
and tells the security at the end of the line to
start frisking people. They watch as the guy David
bumped in to, sees everyone being frisked and
leaves the line. Elijah asks David what that was
all about and David tells him that when he bumped
him, he had an image of a certain kind of handgun.
David goes back to work but Elijah
follows the guy David bumped into.
They go down a long flight of stairs, Elijah
falls shattering his leg and breaking several
other bones but the last thing he sees is the
man's handgun, just as David described it.
Elijah was right, David does
have some kind of special gift.
Back at home, David is working out
in the basement with his weight set.
His son believed everything Elijah said
about David being a hero with a special gift.
David still doesn't believe. David asks his son to
take some weight off but without him knowing, he
puts more weight on. David lifts 250 lbs, the most
he's ever done. His son continues putting on more
weight until David is now up to 350lbs. He has had
all this strength all along that he never knew.
Elijah needs his leg rehabbed and his
nurse is Audrey, David's wife. Elijah
asks her questions about her and David and she
explains to him how when they were going out,
David was a star football player but
got in a car accident due to icy roads.
David never played football again. It was
because of that, that she and David were married.
Had he continued to play, she
knows they would have grown apart.
Back at work, David gets a call from his son's
school that his son has been hurt. His son had
hoped that some of David's super hero traits had
rubbed off on him. He tried to protect someone
that was being picked on and instead got hurt in
the process. The school nurse remembers David from
when he was at that same school. In fact, it was
because of David that they have strict rules about
the pool. It seems that David had been picked on
near the pool when he was a student there. He fell
in and was left in the pool to drown. He was found
at the bottom of the pool but somehow survived.
David tells this story to Elijah, that in fact,
David can get hurt. Elijah tells him
that every super hero has a weakness.
David's kryptonite is water. The water from
the pool and the water from the icy roads.
David's wife decides that him surviving the
train crash is a sign that maybe they should
give their marriage another try. They go
out on a "date" and he explains to her
that he felt their marriage was over when he
stopped waking her up after he had a bad dream.
The next night, David breaks into the train
station and examines some of the wrecked trains.
He starts recalling his own car crash from years
earlier and remembers that he wasn't hurt at all.
In fact, he had to use his superhuman strength
to rescue Audrey from the flaming vehicle.
He goes to Elijah and tells him he
is right, he has never been sick
or injured in any way. Elijah tells him
that it's no coincidence that David is
in the security field. He needs to go
to where people are and protect them.
It's a rainy day and David, wearing a hooded rain
poncho heads to Penn station. Hundreds of people
are passing by. Whenever someone bumps into David
he has a vision of that person doing something
evil. One is a jewel thief, another a rapist, but
when the maintenance man bumps into him, David
gets a horrible vision. The vision is of the man
going to someone's home and killing the homeowner.
David, still wearing the poncho now looking more
and more like a super hero's cape, follows the guy
as he leaves work. The guy goes to a nice house in
a nice neighborhood. David sneaks in the back and
finds the dead homeowner inside. He goes upstairs
and rescues two sisters tied up in their bathroom.
He goes into another room and finds the mother
tied up. The window is open and David looks
out. When he turns back around, there is the
maintenance worker who pushes David out the
window. David lands on the backyard pool that
has its winter cover on. Suddenly, the cover
starts collapsing with David's weight and he
gets all tangled up underwater with the cover.
He is drowning again but the two sisters force a
pole down to him and David grabs it and is saved.
David heads back upstairs and wrestles with the
guy and finally kills him by breaking his neck.
The next scene is David back at home, hanging
up his poncho, and carrying his sleeping wife
upstairs to their bed. She wakes up and asks
him what is wrong. "I had a bad dream" he says.
In the morning while having breakfast, David
slides the newspaper over to his son and holds
a finger to his mouth to shush him. The headline
tells of a mystery hero that saved the two girls.
The picture is an artist's rendition of what
the girls saw. It shows a superhero-like figure
with a hood and cape. The boy looks up at
his dad and David just smiles and nods.
David goes to Elijah's gallery where Elijah
is having a huge gathering for a special show.
He and David go to Elijah's back office
so they can discuss what had happened.
Elijah has been in a wheelchair since his fall.
He is real proud of David and they shake hands.
Suddenly...
Just like Christopher Walken in Stephen
King's "The Dead Zone", while shaking hands,
David has a vision of Elijah setting a building
on fire, another vision of Elijah causing a plane
crash and finally, a vision of Elijah exiting the
driving compartment of David's train that crashed.
David looks around Elijah's office
and is horrified at what he sees.
Newspaper clippings of hundreds of
disasters from around the world.
Elijah is the mastermind behind all these events
and has staged them for his own selfish benefit.
Just like in the comics, every evil villain
needs a worthy adversary and
Elijah has finally found his.
David backs away in horror as Elijah,
who in his wheelchair now looks more like
Professor X of the X-men, proclaims...
"They call me Mr. Glass!"
Just before the final credits, a message
appears that says that David contacted
the authorities and Elijah is
now in a mental institution.
Thanks for watching. See
you in another Movie Recap.
Please LIKE and SUBSCRIBE, and click
the bell icon to get new video updates
Have a nice day !